Now let's move on to the next question.
The next question is the second situation.
The first situation was a one-time process.
You give me a loan, and I buy you.
Now the second situation.
The client who made a purchase once becomes a regular buyer.
The client who made a purchase once becomes a regular buyer,
but in the future does not refuse to buy.
This is a realistic assumption.
There is no doubt about it.
It happens quite often.
Let's take a look.
Again, if the company does not provide a loan,
then nothing will happen to it.
If the company provides a loan,
then on the one hand, it risks its variable costs.
Their volume is V.
But then it can get a value of P if the client pays.
It turns out that in the next period,
the company either does not receive anything,
because the client does not pay,
or receives a full-time payment if the client pays.
But since we assumed that the client pays regularly,
then there will be a constant difference between P and V variable costs.
The cash flow over a period will be the difference
between the cost of the product and the variable costs.
Please pay attention to the slide on which the second situation is described.
Let's move on to the next slide, if you have seen it.
The cost of each new client in this case
will be estimated as the profit minus the cost of the company divided by R.
Please remember the formula for the current cost.
Please remember the formula for the valuation of the share price
with a constant dividend.
Don't you think this formula is similar?
Absolutely right, it is similar.
This is the same formula,
but instead of the dividend, we have a difference of P minus V.
Now, about the effectiveness of lending a loan.
We must calculate the NPV of this solution.
I repeat that we spend our V variable costs,
but on the other hand, we get a certain flow of money.
This flow is constant.
What is it?
It is that on the one hand,
the amount is the difference between P minus V,
and on the other hand,
there should be an amendment to the risk of not fulfilling its obligations.
The risk of the client not paying.
This risk remains, it has not been canceled.
As a result, our formula will take the following form.
We must correct the cost of each new client
to the interest rate of non-return of money
and compare it with our costs for this solution.
As a result, we get the difference between the variable costs
and the cost of each new client with an amendment to the risk of not fulfilling obligations.
Let's see what happens with this formula,
which is reflected in our slide.
It turns out that it costs only 15 units to find out the client's payment ability.
These are our variable costs.
The cost of the client is an incredibly large amount of 451 units.
We calculated this using the first formula.
If we now calculate the NPV of our decision to provide a loan under such conditions,
we will find that even if we take the same 30% of the non-returners,
it will still be a positive NPV.
The cost of our client is more than 400,
and the cost of finding out this case is only 15.
So, if we take a look, the share of non-returners can be 70% or 80%.
Please count it yourself during the break.
This situation once again emphasizes that providing commercial loans,
production loans, is a very profitable business.
Of course, it is risky, because no one has canceled a 100% refusal of a loan.
Nevertheless, according to our calculations, it is very profitable.
It is not surprising that many companies are activating their activities
in terms of providing such loans.
Let's move on.
Now we will discuss the topic of the NPV and sales volume interconnection.
The interconnection of decision-making in the sales volume and NPV.
Of course, we can also consider other topics,
such as the connection of NPV with amortization,
the connection of NPV with taxes.
But the logic is the same everywhere.
We will consider it in this example.
So, the basic question.
At what level of sales will the company be provided with financial profitability?
We will consider three levels of profitability.
Minimum, calculated and financial.
As you understand, the financial profitability level is the level
at which the NPV of the project, the NPV of the business is zero.
These are very high requirements for the project.
Calculated profitability level is the level of sales
at which the company can cover its permanent costs
and can cover its amortization.
Permanent costs and amortization.
Finally, there is the simplest level, the first level.
This is the so-called minimum profitability level of sales.
This is the level of sales at which the revenue covers only the permanent costs.
At the same time, there can be no profit, no amortization.
This is just the coverage of the permanent costs.
We will operate with the term
Operational cash flow.
OASF.
This is one of the options for direct calculation of cash flows.
It includes the company's income
up to the deduction of interest and taxes,
plus amortization and minus taxes.
At the minimum profitability level,
the operational cash flow of the company
must be equal to zero.
Accordingly, at the calculated profitability level,
I repeat, at the calculated profitability level,
the company's cash flows must provide
the coverage of the permanent costs
and cover the amortization
in the operational cash flow.
Finally, at the financial profitability level,
we must get the operational cash flows in full.
But with such an estimate, to achieve zero NPV.
Please refer to our slides.
You can see that there is a dependence
between the operational cash flows
and the volume of sales.
The formula for this dependence is presented on the slide,
where Q is the volume of sales
and F is the permanent costs.
P minus V is the price of the product
minus the variable costs.
We are already familiar with this term.
So, on the same slide,
the formula for determining
the minimum profitability level of sales is presented.
I say the formula,
the difference between all three formulas
will be only in the volume of numbers.
So, pay attention.
The minimum profitability level of sales,
Q is the level of sales.
We substitute the formula for the value.
Let's start with the indicator.
41 minus 21.
It is the difference between the price of the product
and the variable costs.
It is clear.
Now let's go up to the indicator.
On the left side of the indicator,
we see the number 600.
These are the permanent costs.
On the right side, we see zero.
This means that the operational cash flow is zero.
There is no amortization, no profit, etc.
In order to ensure
the minimum profitability level of sales,
this company must sell 30 units of its product.
With this volume of sales,
this company can cover its permanent costs.
Now let's move on to the next slide.
Here, unlike the previous formula,
the difference is only in the number
above the line on the right.
Pay attention.
The same 600 permanent costs,
the same price of the product 41 minus 21,
but now we have 640 units of amortization
in the structure of the operational cash flow.
So, in order for the company to cover the amortization
and cover the permanent costs,
it must produce 62 units of its product.
It must produce 62 units of its product,
produce and sell.
Let's make an addition.
Produce and sell.
This was the calculated profit-free sales level.
Now we need to determine
the financial profit-free sales level
at which this project is provided with zero NPV.
To do this, we need to determine
the cost of the annual size of the operational cash flow,
which will include the amortization of those 40-640 units
that we talked about.
So, we have the conditions.
Please pay attention to our slide.
Everything is described in detail there.
I will only say in words that we have the conditions
that the total amount of investment in the project
is 3.2 million.
The profitability in the market is 20% per year.
We need to determine
the annual cash flow
since the project is designed for 5 years.
What should be the annual cash flow?
Please remember that we have gone through
the model of the cost of annuity.
This model assumes that you can calculate
the cost of a set, a series,
annual payments of the same amount,
if you know the amount,
the number of years or periods,
and the interest rate.
In this case, the interest rate is 20,
the number of years is 5,
and we know the total amount.
We know the cost of annuity,
but we do not know the cost.
In the formula, it was the analog of the size of the coupon.
It was the size of the coupon,
and in this formula we talk about the parameters
called operational cash flow.
We use the capitalization coefficient
and we get that the annual nominal cost
of the company's cash flows is 1,070 units.
That is, every year 1,070 units
should be generated by this project.
So, in order to ensure the financial
profitability of our project,
you probably noticed that we took 3,200,
we took the cost of our investments.
In fact, we could say that we have
the cost of the investments,
we have the cash flow from these investments,
but their cost, I repeat,
if we took a different number,
for example, we said that we have a profit
from our project of 3,300,
then we would calculate for our cash flow
OSF based on the fact that NPV is greater than zero.
In this case, we take 3,200,
this number corresponds to both the investment
and the cash flow from our project.
Since the two numbers are the same,
NPV is zero.
So, when we set the value of the operational cash flow
in the formula, we get 83.5.
This means that the company must sell 84 units of goods
annually to ensure the financial profitability,
that is, to ensure the zero NPV of its project.
Note that under the conditions of this project,
85 units of goods should be produced,
and we have a financial profitability of 84.
The difference is very small,
this is a rather dangerous situation,
because the project has no reserve.
Without a reserve, it can become a victim
of any change, a rather negative change
in the interest rate on the market.
But in any case,
we have seen three situations.
The most important, of course,
is the last point,
namely the financial non-profitable sales level.
Now we will consider the same,
but on a graph.
Please turn to the slide.
Here you see a line that reflects the dependence
between the cash flows and the sales volume.
You see three points here,
the minimum level, the calculated level,
and the financial non-profitable sales level.
How do they differ?
This is just an illustration,
I hope it will help you to remember,
better realize this point.
Of course, the company can work for some time
and at a minimum level of non-profitability.
Of course, the company can work for a long time
and at a calculated level of non-profitability.
But in order for the company
to be able to count on capital growth,
it must exceed
the financial non-profitable sales level.
If the company is counting on the stock market,
on the growth in the stock market,
then it must operate
to the cash flows
and strive to ensure
that the cash flows
exceed the calculated value.
The next point is the choice
of several devices
with the same functions
of the device
that is the least financially expensive.
Again, I ask you to refer to the slide.
The basic question
is how to choose a device
with the same functions
but with different service terms
that is the most profitable
from a financial point of view.
We will have an example.
The logic itself is very simple.
It is based on discounting.
Let's look at an example.
We have two devices.
The first one costs 100 units.
It will last for two years.
Annual costs for this device
are 10 units.
The second device
costs more.
140 units.
It will last for three years more
and annual costs
for this device
will be 8 units.
How can we compare
these two devices?
We must calculate
the cost of these devices.
The cost of these devices
is the cost of the device.
If it was a finished object
that would provide a profit,
we would consider it
a profit from the project.
We would consider it a profit.
In this case,
it is a mechanism,
a part of a whole.
We can evaluate its financial efficiency
only from the point of view
of the costs of this project.
The rule is simple.
The lower the costs,
the better this device is.
With the equality of all
other technical characteristics.
Please refer to the slide.
We calculate
the PV,
the cost of both devices,
taking into account
the 10% discount rate.
The first device
is the price of its purchase
plus the discounted costs
for the first year
for the second year.
It is 117 kopecks.
The second device
costs 140 kopecks more
plus the discounts
for the third year.
The result is 159 kopecks.
What is better?
159 or 117?
We cannot answer this question
because
these two numbers
have different periods.
The first number, 117,
is calculated for two years.
The second number, 159,
is calculated for three years.
It would seem to divide the first number
by two, and the second number by three.
This is the solution.
No, this is not the right solution.
This solution is for accounting,
for nominal economics.
We are talking about economics
where there is a discounting procedure.
Therefore, we must use
the model of
the value estimation
of annuity.
In this case,
117 and 159
are the value
of annuity
which is
two years
or three years.
Again,
we look at
our slide
and see
that the value
of annuity
for the first
device is
67 units,
for the second 64 units.
Again,
we have
two-year expenses
which are 117
and three-year expenses, 159.
The value of
the first device
is 117 units.
This is
equivalent to
two payments,
two equal payments
for the first and second year.
How do we calculate
the payment?
We must use the formula of annuity.
1.74 is the capitalization
coefficient
obtained by the formula 14.
We need to use
the number of years
for the capitalization coefficient
2 years, the interest rate
10%.
We have determined
that if
two times
67 is paid,
we get 117.
The second device
is 159,
the total expenses for it,
and 2.49, the capitalization coefficient.
For its calculation, we took
three years
and the interest rate.
What happens if
64 is paid three times in a row,
64, 64, 64,
three times in a row,
the total value of
three 64 is
159.9, almost 160.
Now we have to
compare two numbers
given to one year.
Remember,
at the beginning
we determined
the total expenses
for each of the devices,
and then we brought these expenses,
which were different in time,
to one year.
It turns out 67.64.
Of course, we must
choose the second device,
because the expenses for it
in the annual measurement are less.
The expenses for it
in the annual measurement are less,
they are only 64.
At this point, we begin
to finish our course,
which, I repeat,
consists of the basic rules
of the investment project assessment,
some technical solutions
that we have just disassembled,
the application of these basic rules,
and the NPV for the current
analysis of economic activity.
In conclusion,
we will analyze the last point.
The fact is that
investment projects
can be considered
by a company
in parallel with many other projects.
It often happens that
in the work of one company
there are two or three
projects,
as practice shows,
projects can be
independent,
or they can be dependent.
If the projects are independent,
then we have no problems.
We use the tool
we talked about
and try to choose
the best project
taking into account
the realities of the environment.
If they are independent,
then the projects can be dependent.
In this case,
we will name
four types of dependence.
There is a dependency
that is necessary,
replacing,
excluding,
and statistical.
In our slide,
they are described.
Project A and Project B
can be interconnected,
dependent,
so that if the implementation
of Project A
leads to
the deterioration of Project B's parameters,
or
if the implementation of Project A
leads to the improvement
of Project B's parameters,
or
if the implementation of Project A
leads to the fact that Project B
cannot be implemented at all.
These are called mutually excluding projects.
When the implementation of one
makes the implementation of another impossible.
Or financially unprofitable.
Finally,
Projects A and B can be called
statistically dependent
if they depend on some external event
of statistical nature
or probability nature.
Please,
refer to the slides
and we will consider a graph
showing
two mutually excluding
Projects A and B.
The mutually excluding
is a vivid example
of how to act
when you have dependent projects.
First,
let's look at two lines.
Here,
we have the vertical NPV
and the horizontal profitability.
We consider
the interconnection
of NPV and profitability
of two of our projects.
They are mutually excluding.
Project A and Project B.
The intersection point
is the point X.
By the way,
as you can guess,
the NPV of both projects
must be zero.
These projects have IRR.
Here it is indicated on the graph.
What is interesting
before we move on
to the topic we have already discussed?
At the point X,
Project B
was more profitable
than Project A.
After the point X,
the profitability of the projects
changes and Project A
becomes more profitable
than Project B.
Please, note that
on this graph
on the left
of the internal profitability
there are
three dotted lines.
They intersect
with two fat dots
that indicate the points.
Please, note that
at one level of risk,
Project B
has more profitability
than Project A.
At one level of risk.
This determines
that this project
is more profitable.
In this case.
If we move to the right
of the intersection,
we will see the opposite picture.
At the same level of risk,
in this case,
of profitability,
Project A
will be more profitable
than Project B.
Its line will be higher
This is for your information.
Now,
as for the rules
of analysis of dependent projects.
The thing is
that when you accept
Project A
and it somehow affects
Project B,
you should keep in mind
that the money flows
that you generate
after accepting Project A
should include
the changes that occur
in Project B.
In other words,
you have accepted
Project A
out of the exception of Project B.
You have accepted Project A.
You will count all the money flows
through it.
You should keep in mind
that you did not accept Project B.
If Project B
brought you some financial profit,
it means
that you are incurring a financial loss.
You should reflect
this state on the money flows
of Project A.
I will repeat it one more time.
You have two projects
and you can choose only one.
After choosing one,
you should take into account
the consequences of rejection of the second one
and add them
to the money flows
of the basic project.
After that, you will make
all the standard calculations
that we talked about.
This was the last
remark in this course
regarding the analysis
of the financial flows
of investment projects
for making investment decisions.
Now,
we need to sum up
our course.
We have considered the need
for fundamentally new thinking.
Perhaps, at some stage
you have lost the thread.
You have stopped understanding
what we are talking about.
Perhaps, it is so.
Please, go back to the beginning
and try to read the course
again
about the need for examples
and changes in thinking.
This is the basis
for further understanding
of the logic
of the money flows.
In fact, there is nothing wrong with it.
You just need to understand the logic.
The first one is
the value of the change in thinking.
The change in thinking
leads to the change
in the price of the asset.
This change in the price of the asset
led us to consider
the issue of the value
of the financial assets.
We have discussed
the discounting
and the discounting coefficient.
Then we have discussed
the effective interest rate
and asked you to go
to the bank
to conduct a small study.
Finally, we have discussed
three options for the value of the asset.
The value of the loan, the value of the bond
and the value of the shares.
I will repeat that
each of these values
is based on the same phenomenon
namely, the discounting
of the money flows.
In the case of the loan,
the return of the principal amount
along with the interest.
In the case of the shares,
the return of the dividends
or another analog
without the return of the principal amount.
The return of dividends
during an indefinite period.
So,
we have understood
this logic, I hope.
Our next step
was to understand
how we will calculate
the value of the investment project.
We need to know
the discounting rate
or rather, we need to know how to choose it
and we need to know
how to calculate the money flows
of the investment project.
After all,
the money flows from the shares
are mostly dividends.
The money flows from the project
are completely different.
We have considered
possible options
namely, the choice of the market index,
the choice of the risk-free rate
and what else we had.
Alternative rates
that exist.
This was about
the possibility of borrowing on the market
or investing in alternative projects.
Finally,
we have disassembled
two models,
the average capital expenditure
and the CAPM model
for the valuation of long-term assets.
The CAPM model
shows us
the profitability of the asset
and the profitability of the market
are interconnected
and shows the number of measurements
of this interconnection.
The average capital expenditure
is shown by the VISCC.
It shows
the maximum expenses
of the company
for the maintenance of its capital.
How much does it cost to maintain capital?
It is like the main funds.
How much does it cost to maintain the machine?
So,
we have also disassembled
the cash flows.
We have discussed the cash flow
as a method of calculation
based on the
indirect method.
To do this,
we had to
understand
that there are three
components of the cash flow.
This is the cash flow from the main activity,
from the investment
and from the financial.
When we add them together,
we get the total amount of the cash flow.
This amount
must be equal to the difference
of the balance in the accounts
at the beginning and at the end of the period.
To calculate the income
from the main activity,
we must take the profit
of the company
from the report on profits and losses,
restore it to the amount of amortization,
restore it to the amount of profits and losses,
restore it to the amount of non-realized profits
and non-realized losses.
If we take the non-realized profit,
we take it with a minus sign,
if the loss,
then with a plus sign.
And then we restore it
to the balance in the article.
So,
the investment activity
is the purchase of sales,
the purchase of equipment,
this is the investment,
and finally,
the financial activity,
namely, the issuance of shares,
the issuance of bonds,
repayment of debts,
repayment of bonds,
payment of dividends.
So,
we have discussed how to find a discount rate,
we have discussed how to calculate the cash flow of the project.
Now,
we have all the parameters
necessary to calculate
the cost of the investment project.
We calculate it.
Having calculated it,
we can move on
to the main actions.
The main actions
are
to calculate
the NPV,
the net cost,
the difference between
the costs and the income
of the project.
To calculate the IRR,
the internal income rate,
we need to determine
at what interest rate
the cost of the money is,
at what income rate
the NPV of the project will be equal to zero.
Then there is the index of profitability
and the term of the purchase.
Both parameters
in terms of discounted value.
Four main ones.
So,
we have already considered
several examples
of how to use
the NPV methodology
to analyze the volume of sales,
to analyze
the credit policy,
to analyze the balance on the accounts,
to analyze the choice
of one or another
type of financial policy.
Finally,
the last thing
we need to mention
is that
investment projects
are not
always dependent.
In this case,
they lead
to a certain correction
of the money flows.
Dependency leads
to the fact that you must take into account
the consequences
that occurred
with a dependent project
in the chosen project.
We can draw a line on this.
I hope that
you will solve
all the tasks
in the workbook
based on these tasks.
They are not difficult.
I would like to draw your attention
to the fact that
sometimes
it is written
in a different way
so that you
think about
what this parameter means.
But all the tasks
are not difficult.
Finally,
the last two tasks
in the workbook
are a summary
of real situations
where such
investigations were carried out.
You solve them.
The last task
is a small case.
Your task is to recheck
the investment project
that was laid out there.
The project is not difficult.
It is a very popular business
in the village of Podmoskovye.
There is NPV,
there is IRR,
there are many things.
Your task is
to recheck
these calculated data
taking into account the objective realities
that exist on the market today
and to draw a conclusion
on how the project is calculated
correctly and whether it is worth
doing it or not.
That's all.
Thank you for your attention.